# Maximum Compromise in your Offensive Security Career

The last few years have been quite a journey. I've personally moved from a level 2 Offensive Security Engineer (queue GoldenEye memes) to a Principal. The differences are so vast that I couldn't have fathomed how much I would change from when I started on this path. My journey was not taken alone, and mentorship from many individuals helped me see the way and become competent at the principles required to reach the Principal level. Being a Principal in Offensive Security is pretty specific, so I'm hoping to capture some information here that people will find helpful. If I'm successful, someone may even find themselves a newly minted Principal using some of this information. Let's get started so you can learn what helped me achieve Maximum Compromise in my Offensive Security career.

## Previous posts in this series

Prior to reading this post consider reading:
* [Broken Into Offensive Security](https://github.com/sneakerhax/Posts/blob/main/posts/Broken_into_Offensive_Security.md)
* [Privilege Escalation in your Offensive Security Career](https://github.com/sneakerhax/Posts/blob/main/posts/Privilege_Escalation_in_your_offensive_security_career.md)

## Leadership vs Technical

Many will reach the Senior level through all technical efforts. Leadership skills will grow as you get closer and move inside the Senior title. To move to the next level, however, it may be required to either become a leader and use your skills to grow teams or become specialized in the planning and execution of technical work. I always considered myself an average Red Teamer, and if I had to score my skills, I would give myself a 70% or 75% if I'm being generous. I resisted the idea of leadership for years as if it was the worst fate I could imagine. Ultimately I discovered that by using my leadership skills, I could add that extra 10-15% that made me much more valuable. Others will choose technical excellence as their path, being a constant source of 100% awesomeness regarding technical challenges. The role I'm currently in gives me a 70/30 balance of technical/leadership. I'm pleased with this, but each person must choose what balance works for them when considering how to reach the Principal level.

## Mentorship

As a Principal the techniques and strategies you built for years to be successful at your job are now the roadmap for the success of others. Mentoring can be a very fulfilling task and is often expected as a Principal in many companies. Staying to yourself and not growing members of the team may not be an option. It's recommended that you perform 1:1 meetings with individuals in your team looking to grow. When mentoring to respect the time of yourself and the person you're mentoring I would recommend setting clear goals and an estimate of how many 1:1 sessions it will take to complete that goal. Your should also consider being a person to check-in with for new team members and interns. Establishing how often this occurs is between you and that individual. If you're successful and mentees are taking your advice you will start to see growth and an increased ability for them to make decisions without guidance.

## Planning

Regardless of which side of the fence you're on as a Principal you may not be getting handed absolutely clear and planned out work. Ambiguity may exist about direction and you will have to decide how to best reach team goals. Your ability to estimate work, break it down into chunks, and measure outcomes will become necessary. The goal of this will be distributing work in a way that all levels of staff can understand. It may also be required to both describe your planning and/or model your process and collaborate with others teams to reach organization-wide goals.

I also want to make a note about personal planning. This means having a personal plan for where you want your career to go. Those who grow to this level "own" their career path. I keep mine in a planning software and update it quarterly to give myself constant direction. This can also help you evaluate if your current role and/or job is helping you reach those goals. It's my personal opinion that you should never let your jobs goals over ride your personal goals. If your job isn't helping your reach your personal goals it may be time to speak up or in some cases find new opportunities. Without this constant evaluation and making hard decisions when necessary I can say I would not have reached this level.

## Cost

Another factor of planning is cost or "what is the cost of the thing you're proposing?". This is a huge surprise to individuals who have only started working on items after they have been evaluated for cost and approved. As a Principal leadership will look to you for an understanding of what you're doing and how much it will cost. You may also at times be asked to defend the cost of your work explaining your strategy and the outcomes that you will reach by investing in your direction.

## Data Driven

Yes, a buzz work...I know. Many of them are complete none sense and add no value, Data Driven in my opinion is not one of those. Information Security and Offensive Security is burdened with qualitative data aka opinions. When you're dealing with higher level staff and executives they may look to poke holes in your plans and strategies, and if they're successful your credibility can be damaged. Companies are relying on you to drive towards the best security decisions. Without the data and repeatability to prove that you're making the best decisions it's really just an opinion. Offensive Security isn't the first group of people to tell someone focused on business that we "know" what needs to be done and we won't be the last. Data or quantitative answers can give you strong backing for your decisions and prove that you have done your research. I use data to drive decisions and I use it for reporting after engagements are complete. I'm challenged frequently at this level and the data I've chosen to collect has been the best response.

## Storytelling

This is a topic I had a huge resistance to for many years. Why would I need to tell anybody anything but the cold hard facts after all? What I learned is that in between your technical work, the teams making the changes, and executives who invest in the changes you're suggesting is a huge jungle of confusion. You need to take every bit of advantage you can to learn how to cut through that confusion and deliver your message. One technique to help you do this is Storytelling. Putting a story behind your work is a way to invoke the feelings necessary to make executives hear what you have to say. These individuals have meetings all day that're uninspiring and just add to their list of "you must care about X". I can say from personal experience storytelling has super charged my presentations. It's has also provoked thought and questions from executives who used to attend engagement readout without much interaction. 

## Optimization

I can without doubt say there is no way I could have reached my goals without optimizing both my work flow and personal life. There is always opportunity to improve your day to day work flow. You learn through experience which things you're participating in that are serving you and your team well and which are not. Same goes for your personal life. Sometimes you just have to realize for example Twitter isn't helping you reach your goals and causes you to feel bad more often then not. At those points it may be time to optimize so you can take back that time and apply it to something that is producting outcomes your desire. Personally I do thing such as very minimal partipcation in social media, having my phone tuned to limit notifications, and having a strong separation between work and personal life. All of these things have made a massive difference over the years and I always look for more opportunites to optimize.
